# AUTONOMOUS OBSTACLE AVOIDANCE ROBOT USING LINEAR REGRESSION
Obstacle avoidance is considered as one of the main features of autonomous intelligent systems. There are various methods for obstacle avoid-ance. In this paper, obstacle avoidance is achieved by the difference between left wheel velocity and right wheel velocity of differential drive robot. The magnitude of difference between the wheel velocities is used to steer the robot in correct direction. Data is collected by driving the robot manually. Ultrasonic sensors are used for distance measurement and IR sensors are used to collect the data of wheel velocities. This data is used to build a linear machine learning model which uses sonar data as input features. The model is used to predict the wheel velocities of the differential drive robot. The model built is then pro-grammed into Atmega328 microcontroller using Arduino IDE. This enables the mobile robot to steer itself to avoid the obstacles. Since all the components used for this robot are highly available and cost effective, the robot is economically affordable.
# 1. Methodology
In the proposed method, ultrasonic sensors are used to collect data related to range of the obstacles and IR sensors to measure the wheel velocities. Unlike other methods we use the collected data to build a machine learning model, which takes ultrasonic sensor data as input feature and predicts the left wheel velocity and right wheel velocity.The entire process of building the autonomous obstacle avoidance robot is divided into three phases as shown in fig 1.

< img src="images/fig1.jpg" width="100">

